---
id: 4zio7z0s9fy1d310wxhrbhx
title: Daas Inc
desc: ''
updated: 1671576562535
created: 1671490674887
---
# Bootstrapped Rags to Rags PCB Assembly Business Venture
## Introduction
Before starting DAAS Inc I was looking for a way to invest my extra time and energy into a challenging project that could generate consistent returns. My previous projects included buying, restoring, and selling motorcycles on Craigslist, and [[blog.airbnb]]. In my mind, starting a business meant doing something big, and these other hobbies didn't feel 'big'. In hindsight there are many things I could have done with these other interests with higher chances of success, but I'm not sure the same level of exposure to larger businesses and their workings would have been achieved. 
While I was looking at Craigslist for my next project, kind of thinking about tow trucks and a weekend towing company, I found a SMT line up for liquidation. It was listed for $10,000, and in the description, it specified $1,000, worth $10,000 to the discerning buyer. Thinking it was a typo I asked what the price was, and upon hearing the smaller number I called a rental company, borrowed a trailer, and acquired the assets. Of course this was an emotional decision driven by my excitement to be hands on with these machines that I know usually cost seemingly exorbitant amounts. The justifying logic was that I could at least resell them, or if they work well enough, start a manufacturing business. My subconscious had already made that decision. 
## The Dream Machine
The crown jewel (which became the biggest PiTA) of the operation was an early 00s/late 90s Samsung CP40. After verifying the aligners worked and the axes homed, the tedious process of disassembling, cleaning, and reassembling mechanical parts and identifying faulty actuators began. Once the machine was clean enough that garage dust was a hindrance to maintaining that state, I began searching for its new home. This came in the form of a friend of a friend who had a small business with rentable shop space. A $200 telehandler relocation later I was able to continue the restoration in this more suitable environment (this is where I should have failed faster by attempting to gain more customers and automate business processes or create the asset listings to sell everything). I was able to build a couple small runs of boards for a local business and even though the machine didn't work perfectly, I assumed it was due to a combination of my inexperience or a couple more parts that had to be replaced. Either way, I decided it would improve as time went on and the main focus should be on getting the remaining equipment set up.
## Mobile Factory
The machines needed at least 40'x8'. Most commercial property that is 40' in one direction will be close to that in the other, and I couldn't afford any of those options, not to mention power requirements. Other spaces that provided that area were sea containers and semi-trailers. Sea containers were around the same price and much less mobile (since of course I'd be moving out soon after my line was running thousands of boards for all my customers...). Finding a 48' dry van for $2000 on trusty Craigslist solved this problem, and after a $700 relocation fee plus $2000 of insulation and electrical gear, it was ready for machines. I found a parking spot on the edge of town with cheap rent and sufficient power, and with more help from my new landlords' forklifts and big trailers, we managed to get everything inside. Now the real fun can begin.
## Customer No. 1
I formed DAAS Inc as an S-Corp in December of 2019 and began the marketing effort by creating business listings in every available manufacturing directory. I got my first exposure to web development by customizing a html/CSS template and adding some JS / PHP calculations for an instant quote page, the formula for which I found from another manufacturer’s page and modified. After creating social media pages, I found a small electronic device being sold by a maker and I reached out about their supplier. They agreed to a short run, I ordered components, completed the job without much hassle, and jubilantly shipped off the first finished product.
## Owner-Operator
A few production managers and other small business owners found my website and submitted their information, and we developed relationships. My pricing was initially loss leading to form those connections, and after some months of customer satisfaction and struggles on my end, I raised prices to what my instant quoter provided. Things were looking up and there were a few repeat customers whose orders allowed me to step back and start looking at bottlenecks to automate. The first one was getting their files formatted for the placement machine, and then part sourcing and quoting via Octopart's excel add in. This worked well but I knew other companies had better solutions and automating the excel process would only go so far. I was also able to find a couple people who had experience with electronics and were interested in working at the shop, and they did a great job all things considered. Between realizing I needed some kind of program to keep track of data and make API requests, training my new employees to handle all operations so I could leave town for school, and realizing the equipment issues I was able to work around were crippling their productivity, there was a growing amount of work to tackle. 
## Scale Fail 
With all of this, I determined that Python would be the answer to our quoting and csv transforming workflows - a Django webapp accessible from our phones, the shop PC, or any raspberry pi that would be setup for various duties in the future. A small amount of research showed that the skillset I needed was that of a software engineer, and this was the first time I started to grasp the vastness of the software industry. Luckily, something already existed that could handle everything I wanted to do: ERPNext - the ERP system that's easy to customize and which is already implemented in similar businesses. All I had to do was make a plugin for Octopart and transfer over my quoting process, automate the placement file setup, and we'd be able to manage the increased capacity of new equipment. So, now that there were two part time employees with some experience, I left town for school while they continued to fulfill existing customers' repeat orders. Unfortunately, the equipment issues of the placement machine proved too big to work around even after multiple troubleshooting sessions, compromising quality and making perfect line changeovers impossible for someone without years of experience. We had a basic inspection system which caught some of the issues, but again between operators who were relatively new, and an uncertified process composed of legacy equipment, it’s impressive that the entire thing worked as well as it did. The quality issues that occurred with our shorter run customers who ordered multiple designs had no solution (other than a total rework of the current process), so we discontinued that work.
## Maybe Maybe Maybe
There was a single customer who had recurring orders of a single design. We could set the line up and optimize it specifically for this job and remove the unavoidable issues accompanying line changeovers. This would generate enough income to keep someone employed part time while covering expenses, allowing the business to exist while I get the ERP software together. Except, even with only one product, there were still enough variables between more parts being placed by the machine, a larger volume of manual thru hole and wire soldering, and intermittent placement issues to keep success elusive. 
## Nope
After trying a few batches of boards with this approach and concretely improving something each time between implementing the inspection camera, replacing machine heads and aligners, and assembling some of the boards myself, assemblies were still failing the customer's inspection process. At this stage in the business I was set on optimizing our digital process so new machines could be managed effectively, and these operational issues had no end in sight. Every effort to fix the line had been applied, and getting new equipment was out of the question.
## Moving Forward
The customer needed a reliable source for their assemblies. I had already tried making our line work, did not have a place to put any new equipment, couldn't replace the placement machine in the line without a ton of work due to the trailer construction (I originally wanted the wall to be able to swing out as a large door for times like this...), and although we might have been able to figure out a process in a new location locally, I was unable to afford any other operational mistakes. My ERP effort had progressed, we had an instance deployed in production and I was familiar enough to install custom apps and start designing our business logic, but we still had a ways to go to just get the basic functionality to match our exisiting process. Since it wasn't ready, there was no way I could justify getting new equipment. A few quotes from other suppliers supported this decision, as one of them came in with a price less than what I was charging (which was just matching my customer's previous supplier), only produces class III product, and has been in business for decades. They have successfully taken over production.
## Debrief
Turning the business off is the next step in this journey, to include updating all accounts in our new ERP, making our final tax filing, closing out bank accounts, and liquidating assets. This whole adventure was fueled by a bootstrapping mindset, thinking that taking issues day by day, solving problems one at a time, and putting in consistent effort would result in success. These things enabled the journey, and I would say it was a successful learning experience, but in order to succeed in the traditional manner, a traditional approach should have been used. I had a vision of a reliable business being bootstrapped out of the mobile shop, with enough work to keep a few people busy full-time and turning out quality product to customers who need it asap. Obviously, equipment that costs next nothing will have proportional performance, and if it is going to be restored, the cost will be similar to a restored used machine, well worth the price I tried to avoid. The idea of building a shop and having a pseudo-digital-twin process was something I had thought about in the very beginning but was too excited and encouraged about getting the line operational to spend the time and implement correctly. I knew software suites would have more features than needed initially, so establishing the physical process and fixing bugs along the way would be the best way to get started. However, I underestimated how advantageous having those digital features available would be, even at the early stage. Having a solid inventory, purchasing, shipping, accounting flow, and job setup workflow integrated into one app via ERPNext would have allowed this line to be the proof of concept for gaining customers, and as soon as the couple larger orders were fulfilled without error while I was still the operator, moving to a real location and upgrading equipment would have been a realistic proposition. But, even in this scenario with better machines and a sufficient digital process, we would still only be a brand-new shop with limited competitive advantages. There are lots of ways to look at this, and a more optimistic take is we would be a fresh supplier with a flexible digital process and a commitment to providing the best service to local customers. But, my burned out bank account and risk tolerance mean that my efforts are now to be spent improving digital skills and progressing in a team-based environment while heeding the lessons from these past few years.
